Now, we have the opportunity to enjoy this edition
that we're accustomed to of the inside story,
and it's hosted by another instructor,
Brother Trent Liphole.
Enjoy it.
The past year has been a period of change
for all of Jehovah's people.
We've had to show flexibility, caution, and reasonableness.
Here at Gilead, for us too, Class 150
has presented us with change.
For example, all the students of Class 150
are from or serving in the United States.
Five couples in one single brother
all serve in the circuit work.
That represents approximately 50% of the class.
Today, we're going to meet three couples
from different parts of the United States
and see how they learn to cope with change in their lives.
And how they, like the Apostle Paul,
worked to become all things to all people.
So let's meet our first guests,
Joey and Taylor Bornshine, from the state of Texas.
Joey and Taylor, welcome to the inside story.
Great to have you with us.
Thank you.
You're from the big state of Texas.
Where specifically are you from?
From Dallas.
Dallas, Texas, all right.
Well, again, nice to have you with us.
You know, to come to Gilead, here you are in the 150th class,
and it all starts with regular pioneering.
So how did you both start regular pioneering,
maybe Joey, how did you start?
So for me, I feel very grateful that my foundation
starts a long time ago with my family,
especially with my grandparents.
They were the couple that, after they got married,
they really just wanted to serve Jehovah the best way they could.
They would ask circuit overseers
where they could move that needed help.
If they were ever asked to go to another congregation,
they would always do it right away.
And so that really affected my mom,
which in turn affected me.
How did that affect you?
So for a while, after my parents got married,
they might have just gotten a little distracted
with marriage, family, taking care of the family.
But at one point, they made a move across the country.
And they used that as an opportunity to simplify.
And my mom was able to start regular pioneering at that time.
And I just, I remember as a child,
how different both of my parents were,
just in their happiness and in life in general,
because she was able to do more for Jehovah.
Nice.
How old were you when that happened
when your mom started pioneering
and you saw this change?
I was about nine.
OK.
And so when did you start regular pioneering then?
So actually, the next year, my sister
and I both got to join her pioneering.
So you were 10 years old.
That is amazing.
10 years old started pioneering.
Great.
What about you, Taylor, how did you
get your start in regular pioneering?
So we pioneered in Texas, but I'm originally from Colorado.
So my parents, like Joey, said a really good example for me.
Most of my life, they pioneered as a couple.
And so pioneering was always just something, full-time service
was something that I grew up with.
Then I was in my mid teens.
My parents got appointed into this substitute circuit work.
That was fun.
On the weekends, I would travel with them
to visit congregations.
I was in public schools.
I couldn't go with them during the week.
And I appreciated about them.
That it wasn't just what they said,
but they set the example by what they did.
OK, I mean, that must have been cool.
You got to be parents from there in the substitute circuit work.
But personally, how did that affect you?
Yeah, so that was just some good motivation
for me to start pioneering.
I graduated about six months early,
a semester early, and then started pioneering.
And then as soon as I was able to, I hit 19
and submitted an application for Bethel.
And soon thereafter, I was accepted
and was able to spend a few years in Brooklyn.
OK.
After that, I know you left Bethel a tube you got married,
or you're there, regular pioneering in Dallas.
What made the difference for you,
for you to reach out and progress in Jehovah's Service?
So we were pioneering as a young couple.
We had goals, but it can be hard when you're new,
trying to figure marriage out, some distractions,
or maybe even just knowing what direction you should take.
So we just feel so thankful to Jehovah,
whether we had some very instrumental circuit
overseer couples that came just at the right time.
We've tried to express it to them,
but I don't think they'll ever fully understand
the impact that they've had on our lives.
Well, that is one of the great things
about the impact of those in the circuit work,
what they do for young people, for young ones.
And I think we're all so grateful for that.
Would you say then that was that your inspiration
to get into the circuit work?
Not really.
We actually had different goals.
We really wanted to go to Bethel together as a couple.
So we applied and applied, and it just didn't seem to happen.
But you ended up in the circuit work.
So I wonder what changed then,
did it just grow on you or what happened?
Well, one day we opened up a piece of mail,
and it was a questionnaire for the substitute circuit work.
So while that might not have been the direction
that we thought we would go down,
it seemed like that was the path
that Jehovah laid out in front of us.
So we happily accepted.
And little by little, it started to grow on us,
the idea of the circuit work.
We were then able to attend school
for kingdom evangelizers,
where it just continued to get training,
motivation to do what Jehovah wants us to do.
And so after our graduation,
within just a few months,
we were appointed into the circuit work,
and we love the circuit work.
Where was your first circuit, Joy?
So we went to the suburbs of Chicago.
So it was great, big city of Dallas,
to the big city of Chicago.
What did you think of Chicago?
It was everything that I could want in a circuit.
So two big city people from Dallas,
now to Chicago, even bigger city.
We love diversity,
love background, culture, race,
and it had everything.
So we were just eating it up.
We loved being in the Chicago area.
It sounds like a butt's coming for change.
What changed for you both?
So after just about six months of being in that circuit,
still falling in love with the circuit work,
we got to call from the branch office,
that we were now being reassigned
to a different circuit,
further north,
and a more rural circuit in Wisconsin.
Okay, Wisconsin.
Well, what did you think?
Tell us about it.
What was Wisconsin like for you Taylor?
So very different,
big city people going into a rural circuit
that was mostly dairy farm communities.
So out of my element,
we would drive for miles and miles
when we were out in service,
no stores or shops or bathrooms or coffee shops.
So it was a little getting used to.
Timing was probably now became something you had to learn.
Right, good.
What about for you Joey coming from Dallas?
What was it like for you?
For me, the big change was the weather, the winters.
We didn't have extreme winters in Dallas
and Wisconsin had very long, very cold winters.
So we invested in really good coats, wool leggings,
great boots.
I jokingly told Taylor some mornings I would wake up
and feel exhausted just getting dressed in the morning.
Putting on so much, I guess that also affected
bathroom breaks and things like that.
New skills you're learning in Wisconsin.
Right.
What helped you to adjust to this new change?
So although it was a different environment,
it was just beautiful to see that it was cold outside,
but that didn't affect the friends, their hearts,
they were warm and their service to Jehovah,
they were so warm in the way that they treated us.
It just adopted us so quickly into a different environment.
Are we very, very quickly fell in love
with the friends in Wisconsin?
Jehovah's people are amazing, aren't they?
What about you, Joey?
What would you say helped you to adjust?
Well, of course, like Taylor said,
the love from the friends it helped us immediately.
But we also actually learned new waves to have fun
that we never did in Dallas.
Yeah, you brought a picture, this photograph,
great picture, obviously having fun there.
Joey, what can you tell us about it?
So this is actually a gathering that we went to
on the middle of a frozen lake.
And this is actually a size fishing.
Did you catch anything?
We did.
You're telling yourself you're not in Dallas.
It was great.
Great.
There's also another photo, and I love this one.
What can you tell us about this Taylor?
So there's a brother in the circuit
who raised beef cattle.
So I got to spend some time getting to pet the little guy
and also a hand feeding it.
So amazing experience, not something
that I would have been able to do in downtown Chicago
or downtown Dallas.
If you're really there just becoming all things
to all people, what would you say you learned
from the changes you've gone through in your lives?
So if I'm just being honest, the circuit work was not
something that I had a desire to do.
I didn't feel like it would make me comfortable or happy.
But Jehovah at times puts things in front of us
that we might not think that we would like
or make us comfortable, but it does.
And I'm so glad that he did allow us
to have the opportunity to be into the circuit work
because we love the circuit work.
So just a nice little reminder that Jehovah will choose things
for us or put things in front of us
that maybe we don't think is going to make us happy
or it's not going to make us comfortable
and how we feel with a circumstance or environment.
But that Jehovah always chooses what's best for us
if we just let him do it.
What would you say, Joey, what did you learn?
I think for me, anytime there's a change,
there's always going to be a little bit of anxiety
and certain tease worries.
I just really learned to just leave it in Jehovah's hands
to pray to him about it because a lot of times
those things never even happen.
They never even come true.
So whatever Jehovah asks of us,
we will be able to get through it
because either they won't happen
or Jehovah will help us and bless us through them.
Those are two great lessons that you learned.
Thank you so much for sharing them with us.
And those are two lessons that will probably help you out
in the changes that are to come in your life.
Taylor and Joey, thank you so much
for being with us on the Inside Story.
Thank you.
Let's welcome our next guests coming from the state of Michigan,
Ben and Whitney Fry.
Ben and Whitney, thank you for being with us
on the Inside Story.
You've come to Gilead from the circuit work
and the circuit work also starts with regular pioneering.
So maybe you can tell us, how did you, Whitney,
how did you start regular pioneering?
So my mom taught me the truth when I was growing up
and I loved Jehovah, but by late teens,
I didn't really know what I wanted to do with my life.
I had a girlfriend who invited me to support her
at a funeral of a young brother
who had passed away in a tragic accident.
That's interesting.
Maybe you could make, what's the connection
starting pioneering of a funeral?
Maybe you could make the connection for us.
Yeah, so for me, when I got to the funeral
of this young brother, even though I didn't know him personally,
I had seen that he had just started regular pioneering
and he had the goal of going to Bethel
when he got old enough.
And I just compared his life to mine.
He was going to give everything he had to Jehovah
and I had the circumstances to do the same thing,
but I wasn't doing it.
And so I just thought he didn't get to finish his story.
So I wanted to pick up where he left off.
I wanted to start pioneering.
And so when I went home, I prayed about it
and I turned in my auxiliary pioneer application
with the goal of starting regular in September.
Well, that's really encouraging something so tragic
and yet something very positive came out of it.
What about you, Ben?
How did you get your start?
So similar to Whitney, my mother taught me the truth.
My dad was not in the truth during my youth.
I grew up in a rural congregation in Michigan.
And while I respected the truth in my late teens,
early 20s, I struggled spiritually.
And the reason being is because I wanted a lot out of life.
And at that point, the truth felt very restrictive to me.
It felt like it was holding me back
and not allowing me to get the rich life that I wanted.
What changed in your life, then?
What helped you?
We had a couple pioneer elders
move into our congregation who were a great source
of encouragement to me.
They helped me to see that serving Jehovah,
it's not about what you can't do.
It's about all the things you can do.
And the way I illustrated is with a board game,
if all you did was just learn the rules of that game,
but you never played it, that wouldn't be a lot of fun.
And that's really how my view was at that time
of the truth.
I knew the rules, so to speak, of the truth.
I respected the truth, but I wasn't involved in it.
So with the encouragement of these two brothers,
I really got involved.
I started playing the game, so to speak.
And I started studying the Bible like I should have all along.
And then I also started regular pioneering shortly thereafter.
Nice, well, we're happy you got in the game.
Was there anything else Whitney that helped you
or maybe inspired you to reach out?
Yeah, when I started wanting to pioneer,
I also got into more studying.
And one thing that really affected me
was the video to the ends of the earth.
I remember watching it.
And as I'm watching it thinking, that's it.
That's what I want to do.
I want to go to Gilead and I want to be a missionary.
Very nice.
Well, that video is still available on jw.org
on the video library.
And probably that video, like yourselves,
inspired hundreds of people to reach out
and enter missionary service to attend Gilead.
And many of them are still out there
strengthening and stabilizing the brotherhood.
So you both then had the goal of foreign service, missionary service.
Did you keep pursuing that goal?
Yeah, we certainly did.
After we got married six months later,
we served where the need was great
in the country of Guyana and South America.
Nice.
And you brought along a couple of pictures.
Maybe you can explain these.
Well, the first one's obviously that's your photo, Ben.
What can you tell us?
Yeah, so we were motivated by the motorbike scene
in the ends of the Earth video.
So we got a motorbike when we were down there,
not quite as big or as cool as the one
in the ends of the Earth video.
But this served its purpose.
We were able to travel the territory efficiently
through our different Bible studies and return visits.
Good.
And the next photo, what can you tell us about it, Whitney?
So when the bike couldn't take us any farther,
we would park it and then we walked
in a lot of times that meant through mud across the trenches.
Like, we didn't mind.
It was fun.
We were enjoying it.
So Ben's been careful on the bridge.
Yeah, you had to be careful because there were black camein,
which is a form of alligator that were in those trenches.
So you chose your steps carefully.
Well, I know, Sue, you came back from Guyana.
Did you continue to pursue Gilead?
We did.
Once we returned to the United States
after serving in Guyana, we applied for Gilead.
And to our surprise, we were invited
to serve as special pioneers in the state of West Virginia
here in the United States.
OK, so did Gilead remain your goal, though,
even though you're there in West Virginia?
It did.
We continued to apply for Gilead.
But then instead, we were invited
to the Bible school for Christian couples.
Very nice.
So more theocratic education, though.
And from there, you returned to West Virginia?
That's correct.
So we continued special pioneering in West Virginia,
and we also got training for circuit work.
Good.
Did you end up in the circuit work?
So we were invited to start circuit work
in the Milwaukee, Wisconsin area, similar close
bite of the Borenchein.
And we loved it.
We loved the friends there, and we loved that circuit.
Nice.
But of course, change came, didn't it?
A big change for you?
Yeah, so one day Ben came home.
We've been there about four years.
We're loving it.
And he came home and told me that we
got field missionary applications.
There it is, foreign service.
So how did you feel?
Ben, how did you feel?
At that point in our life, we were really
enjoying circuit work.
And we loved the friends.
So admittedly, at that point, the idea
of now going foreign and having another change,
maybe lost a bit of its luster.
And we had gotten so comfortable.
We had potentially gotten too comfortable.
What about you, Whitney?
Yeah, I thought, you know, that had always been my goal.
But now, Jehovah, now, after I got into circuit work,
I was enjoying it, now you want me to go foreign.
So what helped you?
So we were explaining what was happening
and talking to my family, telling them how we feel.
I was talking to my sister and my brother-in-law.
And he said, you know, what you feel like you got trained
for circuit work, but maybe circuit work
was training you for the next assignment.
And just shifting my thoughts in that way really helped me.
Yeah, that's great advice.
What about you, Ben?
Was there something particularly that helped you?
There it was.
I spoke with a brother in the service department at Bethel.
And he said that ones in our situation
come across his desk frequently.
And he said, you're at a crossroads.
And there are some who turned down the opportunity
to accept this form of foreign service.
He said, but for those that accept it,
who take that step of faith,
they receive blessings that they could never have imagined
from Jehovah.
And we can rightly say, that has been completely accurate.
We feel exactly that way.
Well, it shows.
So you went off into a foreign assignment.
You continued in circuit work there.
What would you say, Whitney, how did foreign service help you?
So many ways.
But a couple of them are just getting
to express our faith and trust in Jehovah
in a way that we never would have if we didn't go.
And one of the greatest gifts was the people that we met,
the local brothers and sisters,
our fellow missionaries and circuit overseers.
Their faith in self-sacrifice taught us so much.
Beautiful.
And now you've come to Gilead.
How has Gilead training helped you?
Again, so many ways.
But while we loved our foreign assignment,
it did have challenges.
And I remember praying to Jehovah,
asking him for help with certain things
that I struggled with.
And the first week that we were here in Gilead,
I saw the answer to those prayers, specific things
that I had prayed about answered right in week one.
And it never stopped since.
Yeah, and I'm sure Gilead training will just
keep helping you in the future.
You said at the outset, Ben, that you
wanted to get a lot out of life.
And I think we would all agree.
You've gotten a lot out of life, both of you so far.
And maybe the next 30 minutes, you'll find just out
just how much more of life you're going to get.
Thank you both for being with us on the Inside Story.
Thank you.
Let's welcome our final guests.
They're also serving in the United States.
It's Joshua and Saladi Rechenek.
Joshua and Saladi, welcome.
It's nice to have you.
You're a final guest on the Inside Story for today.
And I should clarify, although you're
serving the United States, you are actually
from Puerto Rico, correct?
That's right, which is a beautiful tropical island
in the Caribbean.
So my mom and dad moved there before I was born and to serve.
And that's where I was raised.
And they were a tremendous example
for entering full-time service for me.
Because when I was one, they actually
started in the circuit work.
So it's just from a very young age,
it just seemed very natural to have that as a goal.
And I'm very grateful.
Saladi, you also born and raised in Puerto Rico?
That is right.
I have an older brother, Tafi.
And we both were raised by our mom, Lydia, as a single parent.
She raised us in the truth.
And a little bit after Joshua came to our congregation,
I started to pioneer.
And also I had the privilege to serve as commuter
in Puerto Rico, right?
But we were happy to have him in our congregation,
but something happened.
OK, before we get to what happened,
we have a nice photograph.
There it is.
So that's you with your mom, Saladi?
Yes, my mom, Lydia.
So Josh, just to clarify this also,
how did you get to Saladi's congregation?
So after I started pioneering, I
went to what was called the Ministerial Training School
in 2003.
And after a little bit, I got assigned
to this lovely rural congregation,
where I just happened to meet a very beautiful sister.
I liked the way you say lovely congregation.
Yes.
But a change came.
You said, Saladi, something changed.
What changed?
Well, I had gotten some training as a substitute circuit
over here.
And then there was a need for a circuit over here.
But it wasn't in Puerto Rico.
It was in a Spanish circuit in Ohio.
And so I prayed about it.
And off I went from Puerto Rico to Ohio.
What was that like, Josh?
Tell us about it.
How did you feel when you got there?
I was very different.
I remember dropping my dad off at the airport
because he helped me move up.
And then when I was driving away, I said, I know nobody
and nothing even nearby after that plane takes off.
Because not only the place was different,
but everything was different.
It's very interesting because the congregations
in the US and Spanish tend to be very mixed culturally.
And so I got to be with brothers
from many different cultures that I had an experience before.
I even had to learn to speak Spanish in a way
that everybody would understand instead
of just the brothers from Puerto Rico.
So that's a huge change for you.
Change of culture coming to the United States.
And then as you say, all these other cultures,
you brought along a really nice picture, Josh.
What can you tell us about this?
I learned this day, a very important skill,
which is to check the weather report
before you leave home to preach.
Right.
Do you not check the weather in Puerto Rico?
Nope.
It's either going to be sunny or it's going to rain.
Two choices.
Interesting.
What about you, Solidey?
So Josh has come to the United States.
How did that affect you?
Well, I was happy for the assignment.
It was a privilege.
So I wanted to support him.
So we kept in touch.
And in 2010, we got married.
And after that, we received an invitation
to continue as a couple in Ohio.
Well, that's a big change for you then.
Again, just like Josh, you come new country in a sense,
new marriage, new assignment and circuit work.
What were some of the hard moments for you?
Maybe Josh, you could share first.
Well, as I said, there was a lot of adaptation.
When you started a new assignment,
I don't think we ever felt really qualified for it,
or prepared for it.
And so we were very young when we started the circuit work,
visiting congregations where sometimes there were brothers
that had been serving as regular pioneers longer
than we'd been alive.
And then all of a sudden, we've
kind of the responsibility to encourage them and help them.
So that could be a bit intimidating.
Sure.
And you brought along another photo.
You can see the confusion of the adaptation.
What can you tell us about this, Josh?
So this was a field service day.
We shortly after getting married.
It wasn't that I was distracted or anything,
but we rushed out the door, went to field service,
took the group out, made all the arrangements.
And then a dear brother, very good friendy,
came up to me and he put his arm around my shoulder.
And he took me over to Solidey.
And he says, I'm not going to say anything.
I'm just going to look.
And he looked down at my shoes.
And well, it just turned out that I put two different shoes on.
And he was kind enough to point that out
before I went out and service.
But he didn't point it out before he took the picture.
Of course.
Solidey, what were you thinking?
I was like, baby, what happened?
What are you doing?
So you always check his shoes before he goes out.
I learned to check him before leaving home.
But maybe in all seriousness, Josh, what would you say?
What were the keys to helping you?
I got some really good advice from brothers
with more experience, including my father.
And there's really two keys we found.
One is to love the brothers.
Because that's really what they need.
They need love and affection in your time.
And the other is to be humble.
Because the brothers appreciate greatly
the arrangement of the circuit over here.
Whoever the circuit over here is.
So as long as you remain humble, Jehovah
can use you to encourage the friends.
And then all glory goes to you.
Very nice to love humility.
And that's really what helps us become all things to all people.
What about for you, Solidey?
What were challenges for you?
Well, for me, it was the emotional part.
Because it is true.
It is a beautiful privilege to be able to know
so many brothers and sisters and make bonds with them.
But at the same time, you face reality.
You see all the struggle that they are going through.
So some are dealing with health problems
or economic problems or even their status in the country.
So I was not able to help them in the way that I wanted.
So I felt helpless.
So what could you do for them?
So I had to leave that part in the Jehovah hands
and give them my time.
So I tried to go with them on service,
try to encourage them.
Sometimes we laugh, sometimes we cry.
But I tried to show them our love
and even more important that Jehovah loved them.
Nice.
Well, I'm sure you left a little bit of your heart
with all of them.
That's very nice.
Now you're here in Gilead.
Was that a surprise for you?
Yes, a big surprise.
And Josh, I know Gilead actually has a special place
in your heart.
Why is that?
It does.
It's because my parents attended Gilead.
And that's actually what brought them to Puerto Rico.
They attended the 52nd class.
Right.
Good.
So having parents who went to Gilead,
did they keep Gilead in their heart even
after they had a family and were raising you and your?
They did.
Absolutely.
I remember they had their graduation photo up in the hallway
where all of us would walk by every day.
So every day of my life growing up, I walked past that photo.
There it is, 52nd class.
That's them.
And also the way they were, the way they served Jehovah,
the love and zeal that they have,
it's clear to me, even clearer now,
that Gilead had a big impact on them.
What would you say that impact was on them?
How did you see Gilead training in them?
I think two things.
One is that there are excellent students of the Bible.
Always have been.
My mom's Bible is so many notes I don't think
he can hold anymore.
And my dad, I remember he would be reading the Bible
with us at night and he had an envelope
that he'd marked the family Bible with.
And all of a sudden he'd stop reading
and stop to make a note on the envelope
because he came across a scripture
that he wanted to use for a talk or a shepherding chord,
just a point that he liked.
So that was an excellent example.
And also they've always worked very, very hard
for Kingdom interests.
They've always had the goal to do as much as they can
for as long as they can
and just kind of became the family model.
So it's interesting now going through Gilead
and seeing so much emphasis placed on those,
exactly those things to feed your love for Jehovah
and do as much as you can for the organization.
Yeah, I was going to ask you that as well.
Here you are sitting in class
and you're hearing to a great degree,
the same things your parents heard.
Has that helped to at all?
It has.
They must have had those qualities to an extent
when they came to Gilead.
But I think listening to the classes now
it's clear that Gilead stirred that up in them
and kept that flame burning for many, many years.
That's beautiful.
And they must be very proud of both of you
as you apply yourselves and will apply the training
and look forward to applying in your future assignments.
Thank you both very much for being with us today.
Thank you.
In the introduction, we quoted Paul's words
in 1 Corinthians 9 verse 22.
He said, I've become all things to people of all sorts
so that I might by all possible means save some.
The apostle obligated himself to adjust his life
and personal tastes for the sake of the good news.
We hope today's program has been encouraging to you
whether it's trying something you just don't prefer
or something you didn't think you could do
in Jehovah's service.
Maybe it's just getting in the game so to speak
or giving someone a little piece of your heart
to encourage them.
Today's guests have shown us that by adjusting your life
and personal tastes for the sake of the good news
with Jehovah, we can cope with any change
or make any change for Jehovah's service.
Thank you for being with us
and we look forward to seeing you
on another edition of the Inside Story.
Very encouraging and nice to see a picture
of that 52nd class I mentioned in the introduction
and Josh wasn't there, you know, he was.
He was.
They were rewarded with him later,
there in Puerto Rico.
So that was so encouraging.
We really appreciate the inside story.
We thank Trent and all those participants.
And now we look forward to another member
of the governing body for the Jeff Jackson's
going to speak on the subject.
And this is for you.
Students particularly now share what you have learned.
The graduation of the 150th class of Gilead.
Who would have thought that we would have 150 classes
of Gilead and probably for you students,
you were wondering if you would survive
to the 150th graduation.
Over the years, graduations of Gilead
have taken various forms.
If you look at this photograph,
you'll notice that the seventh class,
the graduation was in 1946.
And what do you notice?
The guests who came along,
they were in the open air, hoping for good weather.
And I'm told there was no,
it wasn't a ticketed event,
so just those that wanted to come along came along.
And then notice in the next one here,
we've got the president giving one of the talks
on the stairs leading up to Gilead.
Well, things have changed.
In 1953, the 21st class,
graduated at the Yankee Stadium.
And you'd imagine that was a huge event.
And in fact, it commemorated the 10th anniversary of Gilead.
And it was very appropriate because
that was a very special year, 1953.
That was the year that the US government
granted us legal status so that we could have foreign students
come and join the school.
And then of course, no matter what graduation we've had,
always the joyous look on the faces of those graduating.
That's the common denominator.
Of course, in recent years,
we've had some very different graduations
as well, haven't we, with no live audience?
But aren't you happy that we've got a live audience today?
Now after the last few months,
you've been so through so many lessons
and written exams and so on,
there's been a lot of training.
And what has been the purpose of all of that?
But when we think of worldly institutions and education,
usually it's all about the students, isn't it?
It's all about their dreams, as Brother Morris mentioned.
It's all about their ambitions
and their success that they're looking forward to.
But what about Gilead?
Well, you've learned very clearly,
I'm sure that it's not about you.
And if you haven't,
maybe we need to enroll you in the next class as well.
No, as dedicated servants of Jehovah,
we see that it's nothing is about us.
It's not all about us.
It's about what we can accomplish
in praising our Heavenly Father, Jehovah.
So now you're at this point
where you're about to graduate.
Now what?
Now's the time for you to share what you've learned with others.
Now what does that involve?
Does this mean you're going to go to different assignments
and start up little Gilead glasses,
informally, in the back rooms of Kingdom Halls?
I wouldn't advise that.
So what does it mean to share what you've learned with others?
Well, as has already been highlighted in this program,
your example working hard is going to help others
to see in action what you learned at Gilead.
But also, we see a very interesting scripture
in the second book of Timothy.
So please turn with me to second Timothy chapter two
and verse two.
And here Paul is speaking to Timothy,
but he captures the thought of what else we need to do.
In verse two, it says the things you heard from me
that were supported by many witnesses,
these things in trust of faithful men
who in turn will be adequately qualified to teach others.
What do we see from this particular verse?
Well, yes, you will teach by your example, doing hard work,
but also you need to take interest in others
and perhaps in a more informal setting,
help them to see the principles and the lessons
that you've learned from your Gilead training.
And that's a very important thing.
We could take the example of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Of course, Jesus was, His main focus
was the preaching of the good news of the kingdom, wasn't it?
But that's not all he did.
If we turn to Mark chapter nine,
notice in Jesus' busy schedule, what he made time for.
This is Mark chapter nine, verses 30 and 31.
They departed from there and went through Galilee,
but he did not want anyone to get to know about it.
So this was something where he wanted some peace and quiet.
Why?
Well, verse 31 says,
for he was teaching his disciples.
So Jesus took time from his busy schedule
to show interest in those who he was training
to help them to be prepared for the future.
So that's a wonderful example for us.
When we look through the scriptures,
we see many examples, but for the next few minutes,
we're going to think about Barnabas.
And how Barnabas was able to share what he learned with Paul.
And as we think about what happened
in that interaction between Barnabas and Paul,
we're going to learn five lessons.
Five lessons that teach us how to handle training
others and passing on what we've learned.
So the first lesson, if you turn with me,
please, through the book of Acts, Acts chapter nine.
This takes us to the year around the year 36C.
So Saul has already become a Christian now after a while
he arrives in Jerusalem.
So what happens?
In verse 26 of chapter nine, it says,
on arriving in Jerusalem, he, that's Paul,
made efforts to join the disciples.
But they were all afraid of him.
I wonder why?
Because they did not believe he was a disciple.
They were thinking this is going to be a very dangerous thing.
But now what happened in verse 27?
So Barnabas came to his aid and led him to the apostles.
So we see as pictured here,
Barnabas saw the potential in Saul
and believed that really he could be useful
in Jehovah's service.
So he risked his reputation, you might say,
by supporting or sponsoring Saul
and taking him to the apostles.
So what's the lesson that we learn from this?
Try to see the potential in others.
And don't worry about if you perhaps encourage them
and you give them support, you sponsor them, you might say,
and then they don't really turn out well
that now all of a sudden your reputation
is going to be tarnished.
Remember, it's not all about you.
It's what is good for the work.
So that's the first lesson.
Try to see the potential in others.
Now if we turn across to Acts chapter 11,
this goes about nine years later, around the year 45 CE.
Now in chapter 11 of Acts,
the work is going ahead in the Gentile field
and particularly in the city of Antioch.
So Barnabas was assigned by the brothers
to go and help the congregation in Antioch.
Well, let's look down verses 25 and 26
because as soon as Barnabas arrived there,
he realized he needed help.
So what did he do?
Well, in verse 25 it says,
he that's Barnabas went to Tassus
to make a thorough search for Saul.
So he went to find Saul.
He remembered this is a man who could speak Greek
and was well educated.
He'd be able to help him with the Gentile field.
It's interesting that when you look at a map,
you'll notice that it's about 120 miles from Antioch to Tassus
or about 200 kilometers.
It mentions here in verse 25,
he made a thorough search for Saul.
Why?
Well, if we compare first Corinthians
where Paul lists all the things he did, many of those,
it appears happened in those nine years.
He was shipwrecked several times,
put it into prison and so on.
So he was very busy.
Barnabas sought him out.
And then what did he have to do?
Well, in verse 26 it says after he found him,
he brought him to Antioch.
So what did he have to do?
He had to convince Saul.
You could imagine that might have been a little difficult
because Saul was having productive ministry.
So he brought him to Antioch.
Then verse 26 says,
for a whole year they assembled with them in the congregation
and taught quite a crowd.
So Barnabas didn't take Paul and say,
now I'm going to teach you.
He just had him work along with him.
And as they work together,
that would have given Saul some training.
So what's the lesson that we learned?
Be willing to make the effort.
You see, Barnabas not only saw the potential,
but he was willing to go and find Saul,
then convince him to come and work with him.
And then they worked together.
So that's the second lesson.
The third lesson is in Acts 13.
So after Barnabas and Saul were in Antioch for some time,
what happened in verse two?
It says as they were ministering to Jehovah
and fasting, the Holy Spirit said,
set aside for me Barnabas and Saul
for the work to which I have called them.
Well now this is the time when they're going out
in their missionary field.
But notice the Holy Spirit mentions Barnabas and Saul.
So in this illustration we see who's taking the lead.
Barnabas, Saul's following along.
But if we look down further in verse 13
of the same chapter, we see there's a little change.
Saul starts to use a name that is more common in that area.
Paul, but what does it say?
Now Paul and his companions would have to see.
And from here on, it seems that Paul took the lead.
Now let's just imagine for a little bit
that you were Barnabas.
Maybe we could imagine ourselves saying
quietly to Saul or Paul,
whatever he was calling himself at that time.
Can I just have a few words with you?
This is not a big issue, but remember when Holy Spirit
said we were going out, it was Barnabas and Saul.
Now I don't have a big problem with this,
but I appreciate your enthusiasm,
but really I was the one designed to take the lead here.
Now he didn't say that, did he?
The Bethara Witness spoke mentions he wasn't envious at all.
So what's the lesson?
Well, if we're working along with someone
and training them, the lesson is don't be envious
if they start to excel.
And actually what we're hoping them to do
is to blossom and they get some of the privileges
that perhaps we would have liked along the way.
So we won't be saying, well, excuse me,
but I'm the one who went through Gilead.
No, we won't be envious.
The fourth lesson takes us to the book of Galatians.
So if you turn with me to Galatians, chapter two.
And this is around the year 49 CE.
Already Peter and Paul and Barnabas and Titus
had all been to Jerusalem
and they had had the big discussion
with the governing body about circumcision.
Interestingly, when they arrived in Jerusalem,
the account says, Barnabas and Paul were there.
Interesting, maybe Barnabas took note of that
that he was mentioned first again,
probably because the governing body remembered
that was actually the role originally.
But now we find that Peter, Paul, and Barnabas
and some others were back in Antioch.
And what happened just a few months after that special meeting?
Well, Paul had to tell Peter he was doing something wrong.
But notice, please, what verse 13 says,
the rest of the Jews also joined him
in putting on this pretense.
So that even Barnabas was let along with them in their pretense.
Now, I just love this picture.
You see, Paul telling Peter he's wrong.
And you look, have a look at that.
Look on Barnabas face it.
He looks guilty.
Awkward.
You see, he was caught in the crossfire.
He likewise was getting counsel
because he was involved with this.
So what lesson do we gain from this?
Except counsel, even from those who we are viewing
as the ones who were training?
Don't feel that we're above accepting counsel.
Now, the final lesson is the one probably
you thought about immediately
when we mentioned Paul and Barnabas.
I know what you were thinking, Acts 15.
So let's turn there.
Acts 15 and verses 37 to 39.
And this is after the incident in Antioch.
And it says, Barnabas was determined
to take along John who was called Mark.
Paul, however, was not in favor of taking him along with them,
seeing that he had departed from them in Pamphilia
and had not gone with them to the work.
At this, there was a sharp burst of anger
so that they separated from each other.
Now, this is the instance that we usually remember
when we think of Paul and Barnabas.
What led to this problem?
Have you ever thought about that?
It mentions that Paul was very hesitant
about taking John Mark along with them.
Perhaps he remembered on that first missionary tour
when John Mark had gone back,
he and Barnabas continued on into Galatia
and reading what Paul said to the Galatians.
It seems obvious that Paul had problems with his eyes
and he was very sick at that point.
So no doubt, you know, he missed having a young man
available to carry the luggage
to do all the things that needed to be done.
So part of us can understand why Paul was hesitant.
He didn't want to lose the hope again.
But then on the other hand, what about Barnabas?
Why do you think he was so determined to take John Mark?
Well, it could be the fact that he was a relative
that sometimes comes into a factor
or it could be that the fact that Barnabas saw
the potential in Saul is the same thing he saw in John Mark.
This is a good young man.
We need to give him a chance.
Or could it be that he was still stinging
a little bit after the rebuke in Antioch?
Or could it be that he was still viewing Saul or Paul
as a student, someone you're in the truth in him
and someone that he just found it hard to accept his opinion?
Now, we're not going to play the blame game.
Some of us will be working with these brothers later.
But I feel safe in saying this.
I'm sure that Paul and Barnabas,
when they think back to that day,
would agree they could have done things better.
Is that a safe comment?
I think all of us have things we've felt.
Maybe we were right, but we could have handled it better.
So what's the lesson?
Try to respect different opinions.
Don't overreact.
Don't get upset.
Try to work through things so that it doesn't affect
our working relationship.
Well, when we've thought about Barnabas and Paul,
it really gives us a lot of food for thought, doesn't it?
Remember those five lessons?
Try to see the potential in others.
Then be willing to put for the effort
that's required to train them.
Don't be envious if they get privileges,
except counsel if they offer you counsel
and respect their opinions as well.
We know that you'll try to implement those suggestions.
Yes, as you go to your assignments,
may your hover be with you and bless you,
may you try to help others by sharing what you've learned
at Gilead, and in that way,
you will fulfill the purpose of Gilead
to stabilize and strengthen others.
So you heard them nice and clear?
Share what you've learned.
Beautiful lessons, keep in mind.
Now, the students have certainly looked forward
to this point for over five months,
and they're going to transition into Gilead graduates.
So this is what this,
now, Brother Ken Flodin,
the helper to the teaching committee,
is going to assist by introducing the graduates
and then letting us know where they're assigned.
We'll hand out the diplomas.
First, we have a brother and sister baker,
and they're going to be serving in Angola.
Maybe sister, thank you.
This is brother and sister, Barber.
They'll be remaining in the United States
where Ryan will serve as a member of the branch committee.
Brother and sister, Bill,
will also be remaining in the United States
where Steve will be serving as a member of the branch committee.
Congratulations.
Brother and sister, Boring Sign,
will be transferred to Angola,
where Taylor will be serving on the branch committee there.
Okay, congratulations.
And here we have Brother and sister,
Ryan, they're being transferred to the Philippines,
and Ben will be serving on the branch committee there.
Congratulations.
And this is brother Hess.
He's going to be serving in the United States.
Very good.
Congratulations.
Brother and sister Lopez will be remaining in the United States.
Oh, right. Congratulations.
This is brother and sister Monty,
and they will be remaining in the United States.
All right.
Brother and sister Martinez,
they're going to now be serving in Paraguay
where he will be serving as a member of the branch committee.
Okay.
Uh-oh.
And this is Brother and sister Morris,
and they will be remaining in the United States
where he will be serving as a member of the branch committee.
Congratulations, man.
Awesome.
That was great.
It'll be hard to follow that one up.
This is brother Morrison,
and he'll be remaining in the United States.
Good job, man.
And this is brother and sister Parmaly.
They're going to now be serving in the Philippines
where he's going to serve on the branch committee.
Very good.
And finally, this is brother and sister Rich and that
can they're going to serve in Paraguay
where he'll be serving on the branch committee.
Well, that went quick.
That was, uh, it's very good.
Well, very special to all of us.
Bless the program, that's for sure.
Just to want to share some concluding comments
and, uh, I think you're supposed to raise that curtain,
aren't you?
Oh, you know what?
Yeah, I want to see Ryan.
Where's Ryan?
Oh, yeah.
So Ryan's going to read a letter
from the class force.
You're listening.
Yeah.
To the governing body.
Dear brothers, over 2,500 years ago,
Jehovah addressed Jeremiah with the words,
Here I am, Jehovah, that God of all mankind.
Is there anything too wonderful for me?
Attending Gilead at this time in our lives
and in the midst of a pandemic seemed too wonderful to us.
But it was not too wonderful for Jehovah.
Thank you for the undeserved kindness
of being invited to attend this unique school.
The pinnacle of education in this world
is divine education.
Through it, the depth of God's wisdom
has taken on new meaning for us.
We feel a greater closeness to Jehovah than ever before.
And we feel a closeness to our legacy from Adam
to the faithful and discreet slave.
At the same time, Gilead has revealed ways
in which we need to continue to grow spiritually
while providing the blueprint and the motivation to do so.
We love our dear instructors
who brought out of their treasure store
things both new and old as they journeyed with us
through God's word.
Their example and that of their wives helped us
during these five months of molding.
And yet, by the way of the scriptures,
by the way, the scriptures were opened up
and spiritual matters were explained by spiritual words,
we could feel that we were really being taught
by our grand instructor, Jehovah, and our exemplar Jesus.
Thank you, too, for taking precious time
from your busy schedules to deliver lectures to us.
Each one of you, as well of all those assigned
to give lectures, delivered information to us
with warmth and enthusiasm.
We saw Bible truth so much simpler and more clearly.
Your humility, sense of humor,
and kindness showed your tender affection for us.
Like Paul, you were determined to impart
not only the good news of God,
but also your very selves.
We will never forget your love for Jehovah
and the privilege we have had to learn from you in person.
We also feel a deep, a debt of gratitude
to the Bethel family for their living example
of kindness and hospitality.
Qualities we learn so much about in class.
Even routine trips to the pantry
or walk around the complex turned into
spontaneous interchanges of encouragement.
For this, we consider the Bethel family's example
to be part of our education.
We know what we have to do now.
Apply ourselves to strengthening and stabilizing
by upholding Bible truth and caring for Jehovah's
precious sheep in the areas where we will serve.
This is a humbling assignment,
but it is one we want to carry out
by imitating your example in that of the Christ.
We are fully confident that Jehovah will help us
because we have seen that nothing is too wonderful for him
with warm love, your brothers and sisters,
150th class of Gilead.
Ryan didn't want to hug me.
It's personal, you know.
Now that's very touching sentiments
and the everybody treasures those expressions from all of you.
And just concluding comments for you some things to pass on
that of course all of us listening can benefit.
Mention, we talk about the SKE School
for Kingdom Evangelizers
and see everything changed with Gilead
giving you some statistics shortly.
But the School for Kingdom Evangelizers
has just been so blessed by Jehovah.
Two months, but they just are strengthening
the brothers and sisters in the field.
Some of them end up in the circuit work, missionaries.
So he's blessing that and what's another blessing
is as we deal with this side of Armageddon
is all these different languages.
They don't have to learn English,
which was always a struggle,
that's the fault of language,
certainly not those sincere individuals wanting
to come to Gilead.
So they've done wonderful Jehovah's bless the School.
Now you've had these five months
and these are some statistics that reveal
how Jehovah has blessed
the governing body's decision years ago.
Because Gilead's change is you see some of the history
and appreciate it very much for the Jackson's review
of some of these pictures.
But it was a missionary school obviously
and they did tremendous work after World War II.
But you may remember
and these are statistics starting with the class 132,
that's October 2011.
The focus of the school changed.
See now, he brought in special full-time servants.
See, there was a time you'd go to Gilead
if you were a regular pioneer
and had good recommendations.
But these are all special full-time servants.
But what was the thinking behind the decision
was to stabilize and strengthen the field
and branch organization, see.
And just help the brothers there
and the branches they'd serve in
to be sure to adhere to scriptural and theocratic direction.
So the school has really been blessed
that decision that Jehovah
helped the governing body make
and it's his organization, this earthly part.
And it's just an amazing what's happened
to show his, the results,
the wisdom through righteous by its works or results.
So here's some statistics.
There are 675 branch
and 17 country committees worldwide.
So that's 692.
Of these 692 members,
355 are Gilead graduates.
So you're talking 51.3% already.
Since when we started that.
Now, of the 355 graduates,
221 of them, which is 62%
are from classes 132 to 149.
This is in these last 10 years.
So these 220, one brothers represent 46.2%
of the 478 total brothers
who are graduates of classes 132 to 149, see.
What happens to, you know,
we have some of you here already
going to be on branch committees.
And that happened in past classes too,
but see, some of them that went to their assignments,
they weren't on the committee right away,
but not too long after some years,
they're on the committee.
So Gilead made a big difference,
form and it's helping the organization.
They've been around headquarters,
like I've told classes in the past,
even though they're way on the other side of the planet,
you can't just make that appear in a video.
It's not like being there and receiving that education.
So the numbers have gone up now.
You had more of you that are on branch committees
and others that'll take Gilead's training
and offer themselves and strengthen as you can.
So good results.
Jehovah gets all the praise and glory,
but Gilead has been blessing
to the earthly part of Jehovah's organization.
Now finally, just these brief comments for you.
Very brief at the graduation, the 52nd class, see.
Brother North stressed the need for the graduates
to be humble.
Now you've heard that quite a few times during class
and they intensify it toward the last couple of weeks,
if I know these instructors like I think I do,
being lowly in mind when you're teaching others,
Brother North told them,
you can't overemphasize being humble.
Just can't overemphasize it.
It's crucial for Jehovah to use this continually.
And we believe that same message goes for you
in class 150 of the Brother North gave class 52,
be humble, teach others with a lowlyness of mind, see.
So you humbly rendering your sacred service
to Jehovah God is gonna cause your heavenly Father
to rejoice.
Don't cause them to rejoice and we know you will.